---
title: "Auditory Distress"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 01-01-2026
tags: ["fiction","first-line","baseline"]
---
**GIVEN FIRST LINE:** \
The year began with a sound I hadn't heard before. \


# Auditory Distress
The year began with a sound I hadn't heard before. I didn't believe it at first, but as I scanned my brain, I couldn't place the sound anywhere in my 30-or-so years of life. It was like a firework, but softer, with an added rumble. The sound that followed was a thud from the other room. Upon hearing the thud, I rushed to the spare bedroom from where the sounds were coming from, knocking papers off the coffee table. No need to pick them up now, I had something more important to check on. \

I paused for a moment at the door. "Please let him be alive," I whispered as I opened the door. I was immediately overwhelmed by the sight, and slammed the door shut. \

"Everything alright?" A voice came from above. I couldn't answer. A pit started to grow in my stomach. How did I not know there was someone else in the spare bedroom? And where did they go? How could they leave without me knowing? Was the window open? I was too frightened to check. \

A knock at the door interrupted all these questions. I slowly walked to the door and checked the peephole. It was our upstairs neighbor, Mr. Johnson. He was a kindly man in his fifties who kept mostly to himself. He came over every Sunday with freshly baked bread, a recipe he had learned from his late wife. He had probably heard the ruckus and wanted to make sure we were safe. \

"Everything alright?" Mr. Johnson asked as I opened the door. All I could do was shake my head. Everything was surely not alright. I collapsed into Mr. Johnson's outstretched arms. Tears started to roll down my face. \

"I heard the noises. I would have been here sooner, except I was cooking and couldn't exactly leave it alone." Another face popped into view from behind the door. This was our next door neighbor Betsy. We had a good relationship with her. I gave her a quick glance as I continued to cry into Mr. Johnson's shoulder. Mr. Johnson handed me over to Betsy as he approached the guest bedroom. He opened the door and gasped. \

Immediately, he called the police. Within minutes, they arrived to the scene. The yellow tape I had assumed to only be fiction became reality in those few minutes. My apartment was a crime scene. I was still in shock, and found it hard to believe. The police escorted me outside to get some fresh air. Another few minutes passed, and additional authorities arrived on the scene. \

One of the officers offered me a cup of hot chocolate. It wouldn't have been my first choice, but it was comforting to have. The marshmallows swirled as I stirred them, slowly, still trying to get a grasp on what was happening. A few sips later, and I started to feel calmer. \

"We can confirm your roommate is dead." The taller officer spoke first once she felt I was comfortable. She had a face that conveyed kindness, much like Betsy. "We have a few questions for you. We can either ask you here, or we can take you to our office, your choice." \

"Here is fine." I could barely get it out.


[Finishing here, as I ran out of time. Or approximately. I wanted these to be short prompts, or at the very least somewhat timed. This feels alright. I could probably expand this later...]