---
title: "The Door"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 02-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "single-word", "prompt-writing"]
---

**Single Word Prompt:** Threshold

# The Door
It's just a door. What am I afraid of? The door in front of me was old, despite its new red paint job. The number 19 was screwed into it right below the peephole, and was the only indication of the door's age. Rust dotted the numbers like spots on a dalmatian. The screws were stripped, since they had the annoying habit of wanting to fall off. The door frame was also recently redone, with stunning silver and gold work adorning it. Through this door was the dinner party of the ages. \

Among the dinner guests were a handful of movie stars, a physicist, a botanist, a renowned philologist, and the richest man on Earth. How this man came to be so rich is the talk of kids on school playgrounds. His name was Richard Green, which was perhaps a little too on the nose. Rumor had it that he inherited his fortune from a long line of businessmen. Which family business is still a mystery, despite much work on the part of journalists. \

To say I didn't belong at the dinner party would be to state the obvious. I came from a poor family, struggled in school, and looked like a homeless man on a good day. I was homeless, but that's besides the point. Though, fate, or whatever it is that dictates our decisions seems to have a sense of humor. Richard invited me to this dinner party after meeting me in the park. He seemed nice enough, and I would never say no to a free meal. \

I rang the doorbell once to no response. I began to question whether I had the address right. A quick look at the mailbox confirmed I was indeed at the right house number. It was agonizing waiting on the door step, and there was nowhere to sit that I could see. I rang the doorbell again. \

The response was immediate. An older man who looked to be a butler stood in the doorway. The man didn't look like he could smile. He looked me up and down once before speaking. His voice was a lovely baritone. "And who might you be?" \

"I- I'm Jason. I live in the park, but I was invited to a dinner party today" I stammered. I forced a smile to see if the butler would also smile. He didn't. After a moment, Richard popped into the foyer behind the butler and made a silly face as if making fun of the butler. I started to laugh. \

"Jason. You're a touch early, but you look nice." Richard said ending in a sing-song tone. "No one else has arrived. Please come in." \

Richard gestured for me to come in, but the butler didn't move. He stood remarkably still, like a centurion standing guard. I made a move to step into the mansion, and the butler reluctantly let me pass. As soon as I stepped in, the mud from my boots slid off and sank into the grout in the foyer. A chandelier lit the room, revealing a beautiful set of stairs. The mudroom was to my right, where the butler had directed me to go. \

"Welcome to the rest of your life." Richard smiled and came with arms outstretched to the green room. "We have a lot of ground to cover, and not a lot of time." 