---
title: The Appointment
author: R. Joe Hendricks
date:05-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "scene","prompt-writing"]
---
**Prompt:** Write a scene that takes place entirely in a waiting room.

# The Appointment
Shawn sat in peace as he awaited his doctor's appointment. It was scheduled well in advance, and was with a doctor he was well acquainted with. Nothing could go wrong. \

It was exactly 12:05 when a man stumbled in to the waiting room. He burst through the doors, and a stench announced his arrival. The man was in very dirty clothes, and it seemed obvious that the man was homeless. It was an urgent care clinic, so this was not uncommon. Everything was still fine. The man was probably just checking in for an appointment, like Shawn. \

Everything was not fine. The waiting room erupted into cacophony. The homeless man was yelling at the lady at the desk. Shawn couldn't hear what she was saying, but it was obvious she was trying to de-escalate the situation that had just begun. She stood up and pointed at the door. The homeless man did not leave. \

"She asked you to leave." Shawn raised his voice in what he hoped was a commanding tone. \

"You a doctor?" The homeless man bellowed back. He had a light southern accent from what Shawn could tell, but he also could tell the man was a little drunk. \

"Of mathematics." Shawn smiled a little. He had read somewhere that humor helps make any situation lighter. \

"Oh hardy har." The homeless man's words slurred together, and he started to sway from side to side. Shawn was sure he was about to collapse. He was now surrounded by nurses and security officers.

Shawn didn't say anything further. He was sure this man would get help. He was in the right place for help. \

A few more minutes and Shawn was called back to see his doctor. Everything would be fine. Shawn was sure of it.