---
title: "The Thief"
author: " R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 06-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "first-line", "prompt-writing"]
---

**GIVEN FIRST LINE:** \
I didn't mean to keep it, but once I did, everything changed. \


# The Thief
I didn't mean to keep it, but once I did, everything changed. But before I tell that story, let's get a few things straight. I'm a thief, not necessarily a good one, but a thief nonetheless. Even as a child I had kleptomania. I see a shiny thing, and I need to have it. Eventually, I figured I would make a profession of it. \

I was hired recently to steal a book. Not my typical cup of tea, but anything for a few coins. The woman who wanted it seemed rich. She wore fine reds and purples. Her hair was black as the night sky. She only knew who I was because I was trying to steal the ring off her finger. She's the only person who ever caught me stealing. So she hired me to steal a book for her. \

"The book is somewhere in the mayor's house." She told me. Her voice was cold, hard even. This book meant the world to her. I've never been a big fan of books. I didn't read much. It probably didn't help that I got kicked out of school and lived on the streets most of my life. That's how I recognized her tone of voice. \

"Any idea which floor?" I asked. I was taught to steal quickly and get out. No need to spend extra time and risk getting caught. \

"No. The mayor wouldn't tell me. He also rejected my offer, which was very generous." She was lying. I can't explain exactly how I knew that, but something was telling me she wasn't being truthful. She then handed me a piece of paper, which was probably her offer of what she'd pay me for the obtaining the book. \

It was a good offer, and I was nearing broke. The night came where I made my attempt to steal the book. The mayor was out of town. He never went out, which made the whole ordeal even more strange. I had made a simple plan to investigate the manor. I would go from the top floor to the bottom. It was common knowledge that houses in our little town kept the most valuable items on the top floors of the house. This is how I stole my favorite disguise, though I don't wear it often. \

Climbing the backside of the manor was a little difficult. The stone of the chimney was decaying. I didn't think the mayor's manor was this old, at least not from what I understood of its history. The bricks came loose, revealing a small hole. Had someone been here before me? I had to be careful. Either this was a set up, or I was just getting particularly lucky. I chose to believe the latter. \

Once I squeezed into the small hole, I took a moment to survey my surroundings. Nothing seems out of place. No one was home, so why would it have been? The chimney was connected to a small kitchen area. Most people think the mayor has a grand kitchen with several servants cooking meals all day, every day. It seems he doesn't. \

Connected to the kitchen is a stairway. The stairway leads to 2 more stories.