---
title: "An Airport Encounter"  
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 09-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "phrase", "prompt-writing"]
--- 
**Guide Phrase:** Almost, but not quite
# An Airport Encounter
The words nearly tumbled out of his mouth. But they were the wrong words, and he knew it. Beyond a shadow of a doubt they were words he knew he would regret. He was angry, but this was not the place to shout. It was a quiet place, a place for meditation. Anger is sometimes like a waterfall, but more often it is like a volcano, bottled up until it explodes. \

Mack got up from the place he was sitting and started to make his leave. His hand quietly glided along the pews as he left the airport chapel. Travel always made him anxious, so he often went to the chapels to relax on layovers. Mack would never consider himself religious, but he knew chapels were a quiet place for him to calm down. This time it didn't work. \

The airport wasn't particularly large. Mack counted about 25 steps from the chapel to the gate he was supposed to leave from on his next flight. A quick scan of the gate told Mack that it was a full flight. He would have no choice but to take a seat by a random person and wait. That was the last thing he wanted to do. \

"You okay?" The girl Mack decided to sit next to asked. She was a college girl, or so Mack assumed since she was wearing a hoodie with a college logo on it. He shook his head. The girl seemed nice, and the only things Mack could say were not nice. Mack thought about getting up and finding another seat, but they were all taken, and he wasn't a fan of the idea of sitting on the floor. \

"You want a Twinkie?" The girl held out her hand where a Twinkie lay. "Food helps me when I'm not feeling the best, and you look in rough shape. We don't need to talk about anything. I just want to make sure you're okay." \

"Thanks." Mack said. He took the Twinkie and unwrapped it. He took a bite and paused. This was not a regular Twinkie. In a moment, some kind words and a Twinkie evaporated Mack's anger. Food has a strange way of making us feel better. Suddenly, Mack felt some worries melt away, and he enjoyed the rest of his layover.