---
title: "Math Rules"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 11-01-2026
tags: ["nonfiction", "prompt-writing"]
---
**Prompt:** Write about a rule you were taught.
(My first thoughts turn to Constance Contraire[a character from a favorite book series of mine], "Rules and schools are tools for fools."

# Math Rules
Math is awesome. It really is, especially in elementary in middle school. Though, as a general rule, I would call what is taught in elementary school and middle school arithmetic, not math. This is not to say that the curricula of those schools does not teach math, but it's not as deep as that. Math is more than just calculating areas and doing basic calculations. It has deep roots in everything we do, even if we don't see it.

Here are two of my favorite rules in math: 

1.In equations, if you do something to one side of the equation, you **must** do it to the other side. I love the way this was explained to me in 6th grade pre-pre-algebra. It's like a scale. When two things are equal, they balance out. Taking out something, or adding something (to one side) makes it unbalanced, and hence not equal unless we add or subtract from the other side by the same amount. This rule underpins so many proofs and derivations and is helpful in so many situations.

2. The dot-product is the inner-product of $\mathbf{R}^n$. While not strictly a rule, it's a helpful reminder. An inner-product produces a scalar depending on the vector space we are dealing with. This is always the case, no matter which vector space we are in. Cross-products return vectors on operation completion. I forget most of the rest of anything related to vector spaces, but I will forever remember this simple rule to know which vector space has an inner-product of a dot-product. 