---
title: "The Mechanism"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 12-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "first-line"]
---

**Given First line:** "No one noticed when it stopped working."


# The Mechanism
No one noticed when it stopped working. And why would they? Most people didn't even know it existed. I only knew about it because I was the mechanic, as was my father and his father before him. As far as I was aware, there was no manual for it either. Men in my family were known for their exceptional memories. The schematics were passed down as stories through oral tradition. Needless to say, we weren't big on writing things down.

Now, the problem at hand. The device that the town relied on for survival was broken. Essentially, the device gave us townsfolk a place to hide from the invaders. Most towns in America went into hiding once the invaders made their presence known. It started with a signal behind the moon, and gradually spaceships were detected nearing the Earth's atmosphere. Earth's best scientists invented cloaking technology that shifted us one dimension to the left, or sort of. The whole mechanism is a lot harder to explain.

The only reason I knew it was broken is because I'm required to check on it once a month. The device lays below the town's sewers, and its only entrance is only activated by a watch that only my family has had. It makes a nice family heirloom. Once in the sewers, there are a series of turns to take, that of course I have memorized. After the long trek, I laid eyes on the device, only to find it shattered.

In the place where it's supposed to be there was a note. It had three simple words on it: "We Found YOU!!!!!"