---
title: "Fairly Odd Parent"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 13-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "genre"]
---
**Genre:** Modern Day Fairy Tale

There are a couple ways to take this. A tale of fairies and magic set in modern days, or an old timey tale with a modern day lesson.... I'll do the former and maybe as a special project do the latter.



# Fairly Odd Parent
I know, I know. You see the title and immediately associate with the show from the television, and that's kinda accurate, well sort of. I live at an orphanage in the center of a big town. Sky scrapers make up our skyline. A few blocks down the street and you've got the school I go to. A pretty standard school where I don't fit in, though it's rare that I fit in anywhere. The only thing special about me is that I have a fairy god parent. Aurora is pretty chill, and goes for the goth aesthetic. Her hair curls down her body in dark black braids with some light red highlights. Aurora is my only friend.

How can I address you, dear reader? Well, like Timmy, I get wishes, and this was one of them. I wanted to be able to narrate a book for people to enjoy and read. Who doesn't like a good fairy tale? I mean, I don't, but like people do, and I really enjoyed the show. Lay off my back random person on Booktok.

Oh, right. Sorry. I should probably introduce myself, huh? That happens at the beginning of books. I'll tell ya while I walk. My name is Merida, or so I was told by the people at the orphanage. My parents were big fans of the movie Brave. Turns out the name was apropos. I have long red curly hair, and bright blue eyes. Merida in the movie has blue eyes, right? Well, you have Google if ya care to know.