---
title: "The Professor's Explanation"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 15-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "technical-writing", "single-word"]
---
**Single Word Prompt:** Map.

# The Professor's Explanation
After many excused absences, Blaire decided to finally go to her college classes. She only had one class today, but it was the one she dreaded most: math. Math had never made sense to her, no matter what she tried. Even Miguel, her personal tutor couldn't seem to help her. It didn't help that the building that housed the math course was on the opposite side of campus to her, and her bike was in the shop for repairs.

Blaire entered her class with shoulders slumped. Her backpack slid from her depressed shoulders like a kid on a slide, perhaps a little too fast. A classmate, whose name Blaire clearly didn't know, caught it right before impact. 

"That could've been messy." The boy smiled, a toothy smile. A little too toothy. He hadn't brushed his teeth in a while from the looks of it. Blaire smiled back and giving a curt nod of thanks.

A few moments later, the professor walked in. He was a clumsy man, probably because he walked pigeon-toed. His suit was wrinkled, much like the papers in his hand, presumably homework. Blaire would certainly have to make up some homework.The professor, as if sensing this thought from Blaire turned on his heels and the papers flew from his hand, covering Blaire in homework that wasn't hers.

"My apologies," the professor stammered. "I haven't seen you in a while, so you caught me off-guard."

* \* *
"Today, we're talking about maps. And their applications in math. And what is a map? I hear you ask," the professor paused a moment then continued, "Don't worry fam. I got ya." The professor paused again, hoping desperately that his joke landed.

"Say we're at an airport, and can see the arrivals and departures. We know where each plane goes. Suppose only one plane departs each airport and that we know where each plane is headed. Each plane only goes one place. That is the basic meaning of a map. And you're thinking, professor, we're supposed to be talking about functions. Well, map is another word for function commonly used in mathematics. We can map from a function's domain to its codomain, or as we will more commonly call it, the range.

"Why is this important? Because functions, or maps are used in our every day lives, in the background. Computers use maps to print graphics to our screens. Stop lights might use a map to tell it when to turn signal. I think they need to update those maps personally. Maps are used everywhere, and I'd like us to continue thinking in terms of maps, taking us from place to place, or space to space."

Then something dawned on Blaire that she had never thought before. She put her hand on her amulet, and saw it glow faintly. It was a map, leading her somewhere. Probably to a new space, or as her friend had put it, a new dimension.