---
title: "Walter"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 18-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "first-line"]
---
**Given First Line:** The problem with remembering is that it feels too much like inventing.

(I kinda hate this line, cause the plot I immediately think of is amnesiac, but that's very over done.)

# Walter
"The problem with remembering is that it feels too much like inventing." Walter repeated this line as his grand-daughter wheeled him into the rec area of the care home. This was their tradition for as long as Walter had been in the the care home. Every week on Wednesday, like clockwork, his grand-daughter Sharon visited him and played chess with him. "Who are you?" Walter asked as he finally got situated at the table by Sharon.

"My name is Sharon. I'm your grand-daughter." She replied with a smile. 

The chess set was elegant. Each piece was carefully carved with intricate detail. The only sign of its age was a chip on one of the knight's ears. Walter looked at it fondly. "I suppose you want to play?" 

Walter was only starting to have symptoms of dementia onset. He would forget a person here or there, and conversations with him included a handful of repeated questions. But talk to him about chess, and he would talk your ear off. It was remarkable how age had not deteriorated his knowledge of a game he so loved, at least not yet.

Sharon played E4, a move she pretty much always started with. It was textbook, and it seemed to give Walter so much glee. On an earlier visit, she had played E3, which led to relentless teasing from Walter. He was never a fan. It wasn't a weak strategy by any means, it was just one Walter always avoided.

"Does that say Sharon? Are you my grand-daughter?" Walter asked after he moved his pawn to meet Sharon's. He smiled as he did so.

"I am. I remember coming to your farm and feeding Arnold, your pig. Wasn't that fun?" Sharon smiled as she pushed another pawn.

"Was I a farmer? The problem with remembering is that it feels too much like inventing." Walter moved a bishop as he said this.

"Only after you retired. You were in the army. Thank you for your service." Sharon moved a knight to protect her pawn.

"The military is where I grew my love for chess. One of the soldiers in my troop taught me. Corporal Lance... something. Is he still alive?" Walter furled his brow, deep in thought.

"I believe so. But he's in a different home. You saved his life." Sharon smiled as she remembered the stories Walter used to tell. Walter simply nodded.

The game went on, and Walter won, which was no surprise. Even with his memory starting to fade, Walter knew how to play chess. He wasn't sure why he still knew how to play. He had forgotten so many other things, and thought others were simply dreams. He tired easily now, and needed to play quick games.

As Sharon wheeled him back to his room, he thanked her for the game. A smile never left Sharon's face. She loved playing chess with Grandpa Walter. A single tear dropped from her face. This was the last time she would see him.

"I love you Grandpa Walter." Sharon's voice broke as she said her goodbye.

"I love you Sharon. I'll see you next week." He called after her. But he wouldn't. She had a new job that required to move. She would remark later that he sometimes felt like a character in a book. 

"The problem with remembering," she said, "is that it feels too much like inventing."