---
title: "Cassian, the Dishonorable Knight"
author: R. Joe Hendricks
date: 20-01-2026
tags: ["perspective", "background-character"]
---

# Cassian, the Dishonorable Knight
It is my pleasure to tell you a rumor. I wish I could tell you I was the hero, but no. I'm not. That honor lies on the "honorable" Sir Cassian. I heard from a neighbor that he was coming to town, though none of us townsfolk want him here. Not after what happened. Why? He is called a hero, but he is anything but. I'm getting a bit ahead of myself here. Let's start from the beginning.

The first time I met Sir Cassian, he was admiring himself in a mirror in my shop. It's nothing much, certainly not anything special. The shop has been in my family for generations, so it is a thing of honor. Prince Cassian treated it as anything but.

"Oh, are you the shop keeper?" he asked in a condescending tone. He ran his hand through his hair. It wasn't unkempt, though it was slightly messy for a knight. 

"Yes." I figured a simple reply would get him out of my shop. Something about him felt askew. 

"The vicar is out, and I need somewhere to confess." He smiled a crooked smile as if he weren't ashamed in the slightest. This perked my interest, but I still went about my chores. "Look at me, swine."

This last line he snarled at me. He clearly saw me as inferior, which was not entirely untrue. I was of the lower class, and he was a noble, if only barely. This was the only way I can see myself as less than him, and the townspeople agree. But, I'm nothing if not obedient to a fault.

"Yes, okay. You have my attention, good sir." I turned to face the man. He was about a head taller than me. He had shoulder length brown hair that was impossibly straight.

[Need to eventually finish this, cause it feels great, but just not as interested right now, and my 10 minutes of writing for this prompt is up.]