---
title: "The Train Ride"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 25-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "constraint"]
---

**Constraint:** Time passes, but not stated

# The Train Ride
Trains have a tendency to be a safe form of travel. For a while, they were the premiere form of travel for the layman. Until recently that is. Cars are quickly gaining popularity, and nothing can stop its rise. Still, trains remain a popular form of travel in Moran.

David had always loved trains. He enjoyed taking them, and especially today. On his weekend. He looked at the red leather of the seat with fondness. It shone om the early morning light. David had no particular destination in mind, though his ticket ordered him to stop in Camden. Until then, David would enjoy the ride.

Only a few passengers rode the train today. Weekends were always slow. The train was not especially crowded, yet all the single rows were taken. David decided to take a seat by a young couple.

"It's my first time riding the train." The man said. David took in every detail. The man's stubble, likely from him not shaving in the morning. His cologne, a popular one, though cheap. His outfit was simple, likely that of a barkeeper. His hair was on the shorter side, not military short, but somewhat recently coiffed.

"Mine too." The young lady added. She was nicely dressed, at least for a day out on the town. She had on a nice dress, one with sleeves and that looked to go halfway down her thighs when standing. The dress had a red and black polka-dot theme, much like a ladybug. Her hair stretched down below her shoulders in a nice ponytail.

"Ah. Well, I expect it should be pleasant." David gave a nod to the both of them before sticking his nose in a book. It was a pleasant day with overcast skies.  Not in a depressing way as most people think. Before long, it would likely be raining, filling the air with lovely petrichor.

Indeed it did rain. It rained for several stops along the way. David would look up from his book occasionally and engage in idle chitchat with the couple. As it turned out, they had recently gotten engaged. A barkeeper and a teacher. Not an unlikely couple, certainly not with the abundance of bars around. The man, whose name was Trevor, worked in a bar that had no name, or if it had one, it certainly was never mentioned. Abigail, Trevor's fiancée, worked at a local school. It was the first time they'd left the city, since travel was not a luxury they could afford often.

Several stops of the train, and the conductor announced that it was the Camden stop. David had finished his book, and was looking for another one on Amazon. His search was interrupted by the screeching of the brakes of the train for the final time during this stretch of journey. He said his goodbyes and went about his business.

[Feels pretty okay. Could definitely be expanded. definitely needs some more worldbuilding. Not necessarily the start of a story.]