---
title: 
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 29-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "genre"]
---

**Genre Prompt:** Mystery, without a crime

# Place-Holder Title
A single post-it note adorned the door to my apartment. In neat cursive, it read "Find me." There was additional text on the back, this time in print. An address, and one I knew well. The address was for a favorite cafe, next to a bookshop that I frequented.

*Who could be behind all this,* I thought as I walked the few blocks to the cafe. No one I knew regularly wrote in cursive, and the address wasn't written by anyone I recognized. I had a habit of memorizing my friend's handwriting. Mostly just something for fun in my spare time.

With one road crossing before I reached the cafe, I strained to see anyone I recognized. It was still too far to tell. Looking both ways, I crossed the street. Heading to the cafe, I saw the head chef dash in to the cafe, returning a moment later with a sticky note, this one a nice lime green. It read, "Remember the white knight." This was a reference to a favorite book series of mine, so I knew the next step would be inside the book shop.

I finished pleasantries with the chef and headed straight for the bookshop. I paused for a moment when I realized the usual curtain had been replaced by one emblazoned with art of a white knight. It looked spectacular....

[Not finishing this at least feels right since it's a mystery. I'll probably actually finish it eventually, but time is up, it's late, and I'm kinda tired.]