---
title: "Post-Test Clarity"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 29-01-2026
tags: ["nonfiction", "reflective"]
---

**Prompt:** A moment you didn't understand then.

# Post-Test Clarity
Ms. Page was possibly the most influential teacher I've had to date. I've always loved math teachers, but there's something special about Ms. Page. The way her class was structured for me as an eighth grader was the perfect catalyst for me to learn and grow.

Tests on computers were common in my middle school. One standardized test to assess student growth was known as the NWEA. It was given once a semester on the first and fourth semesters of school respectively. My score hadn't changed much in the three years in middle school for the math specific NWEA. I'd improve here a little, and there a little.

It was the end of the school year, and the day of the last NWEA I would ever take. Something I guess just clicked. I rushed through as doing calculations in my head was never terribly difficult. I got to the last question quickly in the dimly lit computer room. I checked to make sure I wasn't the first one to finish. I knew I hadn't gotten all the questions right, and I wasn't the first to finish. As I clicked submit, the score came up. It was 260, the best score I had ever gotten on the NWEA, and quite an improvement.

I hurried back to the class, excited that I had gotten a good score, and also noting how quickly I had finished. 45 minutes for 45 questions or so isn't bad. I had a huge grin on my face, and my excitement was uncontained.

"What do you have to smile about?" Ms. Page's voice greeted me. I told her the news excitedly. "Well, that is something to be excited about." She had a smile that showed excitement, but more likely for a reason that she helped a student grow.

"There were a few words I didn't recognize and didn't know what to do with." I said, and relayed the words. The biggest one was "asymptote".

Ms. Page thought for a second, and gave a quick explanation of asymptotes. Then, she said words that I didn't realize would change my life: "Do you want to learn more?"

I had always liked math, and had been decent at it. Around this time, maybe after, I don't remember, I had been watching a show called Numb3rs (a show that I'm now very fond of). I was probably going to say yes anyways, since I liked math, but that question has always lead me since, mostly subconsciously. This one conversation led me to a degree in maths, and led me to where I am today.