---
title: "Distress Signal"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 30-01-2026
tags: ["fiction", "first-line"]
---
**GIVEN FIRST LINE:** “It wasn’t the message that mattered—it was how long it took to arrive.”
(I'm replacing the dash here with a semi-colon, cause I think that works a little better.)

# Distress Signal
It wasn’t the message that mattered; it was how long it took to arrive. The message also mattered, but it was too late.. Centuries had passed since humans first discovered signals from aliens. Eventually, communication started between the races, and both evolved in a healthy symbiosis. Visits were conducted to alien home worlds, as technology became more advanced. Signals and communication became rapid. Though they seemed to stop for a while. Or so we thought.

We received a distress signal, though it was dated from seven months ago. Intergalactic wars weren't unheard of. We helped in a couple, by which I mean, we sent soldiers. None of them ever returned unfortunately. May they rest in peace.

I was called to investigate the signal, as I was the foremost going expert on linguistics, and was trusted to decrypt the untranslated part of the distress signal. Sometimes the signals didn't fully translate. Decoding the messages was my favorite part of the job.

I walked past the security guard with a nod. I wasn't in the biggest rush, so I stopped a handful of times to greet a few friends at the bureau. I'm not usually the talkative type, but these people had become family over the last few months. Bruce and his wife recently had a baby. Clara recently got engaged. Even our intern, Carl, had some exciting news.

[I meant to write more, and I should have focused on the signal, but... overall, I don't hate this. Will need some developmental edits for sure.]