---
title: "Reflection Letter"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 31-01-2026
tags: ["non-fiction", "reflection"]
---
**Prompt:** Reflect on the Letter to yourself from Dec. 31, 2025.

Hey Riley,

You were right. Sometimes perfection isn't the way to go. Sometimes you just gotta write and go back later and edit and adjust. Git's been good. A minor hiccup here and there, but nothing terribly wrong. So now, one month minus a day or two is complete. Good on ya. I would suggest for the next leg of the project to go back and edit one or two of them here or there. I heard you had done some minor changes due to some feedback received. That's excellent. Good can become better. You like poetry. That can become part of your additional projects file on the main branch.

In terms of jobs, I know ya only applied to one. Look on the bright side. You heard back from the one as well as one you previously applied to. I also know it didn't go in your favor. You worked on your resume a little, and hopefully it's a little bit better now. Unfortunately, as the person who helped you with your resume noted, it's sort of a perpetual work in progress. I know ya don't got tons of experience. Try free-lancing. Ask around about opportunities in your area. Something will pop up. You got this.

I'm proud of you for keeping this up. You haven't been perfect, but you've tried, and that's what counts. Keep writing poetry, you seem to enjoy it. Keep looking for opportunities to shine. More than just shades, you need some SPF 30 for a future this bright.
Yours truly,
Joe Hendricks