---
title: "Elevators"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 02-02-2026
tags: ["fiction", "first-line"]
---
**GIVEN FIRST LINE:** “We were standing close, but we weren’t together.”

# Elevators
We were standing close, but we weren’t together. Several strangers, standing together in an elevator. Unbeknownst to us, something would bring us together sooner rather than later. The elevator lurched to a stop, letting a few of the people leave to their offices, letting others on. The doors closed again, signaling a further ascent. The only sound was the jazz you hear in every elevator.

Another halting. The repeat of the last floor's ritual. Some people get off, and others get on to make their ascent. Elevators are convenient and quick. At this point some of us might be considering just using the stairs. Another minute passes, and the elevator continues upward.

This was our stop. The top floor of a small office building. It was divided into two smaller offices, each one focusing on its own business and clientele. The mass of people divided this way and that, like a frayed rope. A few people engaged in small talk, though if we're honest, most people thought it too early for such pleasantries.

Paul Stein made his way to the break room. His mind was solely focused on getting to the break room for a quick moment of silence. His morning had been too loud. His car wasn't working, so he opted to take the bus. With one day of PTO left and already reserved, he would unfortunately have to work today. Anything for a moment of peace and quiet away from people.

Today would be loud. Paul opened the break room to a cacophony.


[Need to finish another prompt, otherwise I would love to finish this.]