---
title: "A Lesson From Grandpa"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 05-02-2026
tags: ["nonfiction"]
---

**Prompt:** A conversation you replay.

# A Lesson From Grandpa
I was young back then, and vacations were fun. The primary color of Oregon is green. Lucky me, that's my favorite. Oregon provided a nice break from the brown I was accustomed to in New Mexico. Everything fun comes with chores though.

One thing should be clear: I am not now, nor have I ever been built for physical labor. Back then, I was short and stick-like, no meat on my bones. When I had to be outside in the cold, I would often shrink into my hoodie and shiver to keep warm. 

Grandpa Joe (what a great name Joe is), needed some help moving some branches he cut from one of his trees in the backyard. Growing up in the early 1900s, he learned that when something needs to get done, it gets done. He enlisted me and my brother to help get the branches to his truck to take to the dump. Being me, I was helping, but before long the weather turned on us, and it was drizzling rain. Trying to keep myself warm and getting big loads were mutually exclusive events.

After loading another small load into his truck, Grandpa chuckled, and said "Don't you know how to work hard?" I was doing my best I was being laughed at. I just threw the sticks in and probably mumbled something like I'm cold. These words echo in my head to this day, and the conversation continued some time after I had blabbed to my mother about how my feelings were hurt.

"I didn't mean to hurt yer feelings." Grandpa smiled and touched my arm. There's something about a Grandfather's love that heals wounds, if not only temporarily.

"I know, but I'm not built for the cold." I imagine myself saying, because back then, I probably wasn't that eloquent. 

"That's fine," Grandpa would chuckle. "I know you were tryin' to help, but we needed to be a little faster." He was right of course. His anger was only momentary. Small words hurt, but sometimes thinking about small words can mean a lot.

I've always wondered if I "know how to work hard". Truthfully, I don't think I ever learned, at least not in the way Grandpa Joe originally intended it to mean. I'm built different, and that's okay. I can't work hard in terms of physical labor, but I can work hard to learn new skills like languages, or how to code, or some process in math. So, yes Grandpa Joe, I think I do know how to work hard, just not in the same way as you. I love you, and I always have.