---
title: "Confrontation"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks""
date: 09-02-2026
tags: ["fiction", "scene-writing"]
---

**Prompted Scene:** Two people want different things

# Confrontation

Diana was rightfully angry. The numbers had confirmed her suspicions. Her boss, Dirk, was embezzling from the company. He had been doing so for months, and denied several employees raises and promotions claiming that  "there simply wasn't enough money in the company budget." *Not enough for Dirk to stuff his pockets full*, she thought.

"Ah, Diana. Good to see you." Dirk smiled as Diana stampeded into his office. Her demeanor was that of an angry bull. Her breathing was heavy as she tried to find the words she would say. Her hands clenched into fists, partially in anger, and partially to give her the resolve she needed.

"We all know you've been stealing money from the company." Diana's voice came out as a yell. She hadn't intended it to come out so loud, but she wasn't in a calm enough mood to lower her voice. She would let her temper sear her boss for a second.

"Well, someone is. The numbers prove it. Hard to say who though. No name on the account. At least no one at this company." Dirk said this with no hint of remorse. He knew exactly what he was doing, which infuriated Diana more.

"We deserve raises. We need that money." Diana screamed. She took a step closer to Dirk, who simply put up his hand.

"You're right. And I want a yacht. Your point?" Dirk looked at his nails, as if not willing to acknowledge Diana anymore.

"You'll pay for your crimes. I'll make sure of it." Diana knew she couldn't prove Dirk was stealing money, but she intended to find out. If Dirk wanted a yacht, he would get a yacht. Diana would get revenge.