---
title: "The System"
author: "R. Joe Hendricks"
date: 30-12-2025
tags: ["nonfiction","meta-writing","structure"]
---
**Prompt:** \
Write about the system you're setting up. Why use Git? Why daily prompts? Why three months instead of a year? \
**Response:** \
The whole point of this is essentially to improve my resume, to have something more concrete to show as a baseline of my skills. I originally thought I'd only do one month, but I figured 3 months is probably better, as that's a close approximation of a semester in school. I also feel like 3 months is a decent limit of days where I can do this kind of thing consistently. That's about how long my streak was on one of the Linkedin games, I forget its name, but it's the word association one. \

In terms of the Git system, I wanted to do something to hone skills, and Git seemed like another skill I could hone. It's also just nicer to organize in my mind that something like Google Drive or One Drive. I also wanted to share this journey with others as sort of an accountability thing. If I miss a day, a friend could be inspire me/remind me to continue going. \

Another nice feature of using Git is its version history system. I can use this to track edits I make assuming I come back to it, which in and of itself is a skill. Especially since editing/proofreading work is something I want to do. I also have an extra projects folder in Git that I might work on other skills as just kinda something fun to do aside of this to again hone some skills and just in general improve my resume.
